---
url: https://docs.isaacsim.omniverse.nvidia.com/latest/utilities/vscode_extension_template_generator.html
title: "VSCode Extension Template Generator"
section: "Extension 模板"
module: "03-extension-dev"
checksum: "1f26ba6b97877a99"
fetched: "2026-06-21T13:39:56"
---

* [Templates](templates_index.html)
* Advanced Extension Template Generator from VS Code

[Is this page helpful?](https://surveys.hotjar.com/4904bf71-6484-47a7-83ff-4715cceabdb5)

# Advanced Extension Template Generator from VS Code

The [Isaac Sim VS Code Edition](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=NVIDIA.isaacsim-vscode-edition) is a Visual Studio Code extension that provides development support for NVIDIA Omniverse in general and Isaac Sim in particular.
One of its features is the generation of advanced extension templates.

Isaac Sim VS Code Edition’s Extension template generator wizard

Extension templates can be generated in the following forms:

* Ready-to-use extensions (**Python**)
* Extensions requiring a Kit-based build system (**C++** and/or **Python**)

The following table list the extension components that can be generated by the template as well as their availability according to the programming language to be used.

Extension components that can be generated by the template

| Component | Python | C++ | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Extension | yes | yes | Define an extension class that derives from `omni.ext.IExt` |
| API | yes | yes | Define/expose codebase Application Programming Interface (API) |
| OmniGraph | yes | yes | Create nodes using the OmniGraph framework for visual scripting |
| Pybind | no | yes | Reflect C++ code using `pybind11` so that it can be called from Python |
| UI | yes | no | Create Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) using Omniverse UI framework |
| Tests | yes | yes | Create test cases for the extension |

---

## Ready-To-Use Extensions

A ready-to-use extension (**Python**), as the name suggests, is an extension that can be used as-is once created without the need for any extra configuration or build system.

The subsequent subsections describe how to generate and run this type of extensions.

### Creating the Extension

Note

The folder containing the extension to be created had to be listed in the Isaac Sim extension search path in order to be discoverable.

If this is not the case, you can use the Isaac Sim’s Extensions Manager (*Window > Extensions* menu) to add it.
Click on the hamburger icon in the Extensions Manager, and then *Settings* in the sub-menu, to add the path to the folder containing your extensions.

Hint

For convenience, the `extsUser` folder at the root of the Isaac Sim installation is listed in the extension search path, so it is recommended to create the extension in that folder.

Open, in the VS Code Editor, the *Isaac Sim VS Code Edition*’s extension template generator wizard (*Templates > Extension*) and fill/check, at least, the following fields:

* **Ext. name**: Given extension name. E.g. `my.custom.extension`.
* **Ext. path**: Folder path that will contain the extension. E.g.: `PATH_TO_ISAAC_SIM/extsUser`.
* Enable the **Ready-to-use extension** checkbox.
* Enable the specific component(s) to generate.

Then, press *Create* to generate the extension. Check that the generated extension exists in the specified path. At this point, the extension is ready to be modified with your own code.

### Running the Extension

Launch Isaac Sim, then search and enable the created extension in the Extension Manager (using the given extension name).
Depending on the component(s) created, the following can be expected (without additional modification):

* Extension/API: Simply, the extension is enabled.
* OmniGraph: The node `OgnMyCustomExtensionPy` can be instantiated in an Action Graph (e.g.: through *Create > Visual Scripting > Action Graph*).
* UI: A sample window can be opened when clicking on the *Window > My Custom Extension* menu.
* Tests: The tests can be run from an opened terminal in the root directory of Isaac Sim as follows:

  > Linux
  >
  > ```python
  > ./kit/kit --empty --enable omni.kit.test --/exts/omni.kit.test/runTestsAndQuit=true --/exts/omni.kit.test/testExts/0='my.custom.extension' --ext-folder "extsUser" --no-window --allow-root
  > ```
  >
  >
  > Windows
  >
  > ```python
  > .\kit\kit --empty --enable omni.kit.test --/exts/omni.kit.test/runTestsAndQuit=true --/exts/omni.kit.test/testExts/0='my.custom.extension' --ext-folder "extsUser" --no-window --allow-root
  > ```

---

## Extensions Requiring a Kit-based Build System

Extensions (**C++** and/or **Python**) requiring Kit-based build system, as the name suggests, need to be configured as part of a Kit SDK-based application (such as the [Isaac Sim Open-Source Application](https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacSim) or the [Omniverse Kit App Template](https://github.com/NVIDIA-Omniverse/kit-app-template)) in order to be compiled.

The subsequent subsections describe how to generate and run this type of extensions.

### Building the Open-Source Application

Get the [Isaac Sim Open-Source Application](https://github.com/isaac-sim/IsaacSim), and setup and build it according to its documentation.

### Creating the Extension

Hint

For convenience, the `source/extensions` folder at the root of the Isaac Sim Open-Source Application is configured, in the build system, as a place to search for the extensions’ source code.
Therefore, it is recommended to create the extension there. **Create it if the folder doesn’t exist**.

Open, in the VS Code Editor, the *Isaac Sim VS Code Edition*’s extension template generator wizard (*Templates > Extension*) and fill/check, at least, the following fields:

* **Ext. name**: Given extension name. E.g. `my.custom.extension`.
* **Ext. path**: Folder path that will contain the extension source code. E.g.: `PATH_TO_ISAAC_SIM_APPLICATION/source/extensions`.
* Disable the *Ready-to-use extension* checkbox (if it is already enabled).
* Enable the specific component(s) to generate.

Then, press *Create* to generate the extension. Check that the generated extension exists in the specified path.

### Configuring the Build System

Depending on the component(s) created, the following configuration is necessary:

* OmniGraph: Edit the `kit-sdk-deps.packman.xml` file (in the `deps/` or `tools/deps/` folder, according to the application) to include the USD dependency, if it is not already present:

  > ```python
  > <import path="...all-deps.packman.xml">
  >     <!-- JUST ADD THE NEXT LINE -->
  >     <filter include="usd-${config}"/>
  > </import>
  >
  > <!-- JUST ADD THE NEXT LINE -->
  > <!-- use ../ for deps/ folder, or ../../ for tools/deps/ folder -->
  > <dependency name="usd-${config}" linkPath="../_build/target-deps/usd/${config}"/>
  > ```
* Tests: Edit the `kit-sdk-deps.packman.xml` file (in the `deps/` or `tools/deps/` folder, according to the application) to include the `doctest` dependency, if it is not already present:

  > ```python
  > <import path="...all-deps.packman.xml">
  >     <!-- JUST ADD THE NEXT LINE -->
  >     <filter include="doctest"/>
  > </import>
  >
  > <!-- JUST ADD THE NEXT LINE -->
  > <!-- use ../ for deps/ folder, or ../../ for tools/deps/ folder -->
  > <dependency name="doctest" linkPath="../_build/target-deps/doctest">
  >     <package name="doctest" version="2.4.5+nv1-3" />
  > </dependency>
  > ```

### Building the Extension

To build the extension, simply run the following command from an opened terminal in the root directory of the Isaac Sim Open-Source Application:

Linux

```python
./build.sh  # or ./repo.sh build
```

Windows

```python
build.bat  :: or .\repo.bat build
```

### Running the Extension

Launch Isaac Sim, then search and enable the created extension in the Extension Manager (using the given extension name).
Depending on the component(s) created, the following can be expected (without additional modification):

* Extension/API: Simply, the extension is enabled.
* OmniGraph: The node `OgnMyCustomExtensionPy` (Python) and/or `OgnMyCustomExtensionCpp` (C++) can be instantiated in an Action Graph (e.g.: through *Create > Visual Scripting > Action Graph*).
* Pybind (C++ only): The exposed C++ API via `pybind11` can be called from Python.

  > For example, execute the following code in the *Script Editor* (*Window > Script Editor* menu):
  >
  > ```python
  > import my.custom.extension
  >
  > interface = my.custom.extension.acquire_extension_interface()
  > my.custom.extension.set_default_status("custom status")
  > interface.register_object(10)
  > my.custom.extension.release_extension_interface()
  > ```
* UI (Python only): A sample window can be opened when clicking on the *Window > My Custom Extension* menu.
* Tests: The tests can be run from an opened terminal in the root directory of the Isaac Sim Open-Source Application as follows:

  > Linux
  >
  > ```python
  > ./_build/linux-x86_64/release/tests-my.custom.extension.sh
  > ```
  >
  >
  > Windows
  >
  > ```python
  > .\_build\windows-x86_64\release\tests-my.custom.extension.bat
  > ```

On this page

* [Ready-To-Use Extensions](#ready-to-use-extensions)
  + [Creating the Extension](#creating-the-extension)
  + [Running the Extension](#running-the-extension)
* [Extensions Requiring a Kit-based Build System](#extensions-requiring-a-kit-based-build-system)
  + [Building the Open-Source Application](#building-the-open-source-application)
  + [Creating the Extension](#id2)
  + [Configuring the Build System](#configuring-the-build-system)
  + [Building the Extension](#building-the-extension)
  + [Running the Extension](#id3)